Title: Insights into the 2022 FIFA World Cup
Authors: Rachel Anthony and Christian Sipley

This project looks at data collected from the 2022 FIFA World Cup and analyzes the different variables and effects they have on winning a match in this tournament. A variety of statistical models were constructed to try to use supervised learning to determine the variables that had the greatest effect on the outcome, and if we could create a model that would predict the winner of a match with high accuracy based on these variables. The data was explored using a variety of visualizations and tabular outputs to ultimately select the variables to use in the models. Based on some restrictions we found with the r base data visualization packages and the size of the data, we created a Shiny app that is an interactive web page users can use to visualize the difference in variable statistics based on whether the team won or lost through a polar scatter plot.

The "FIFA-Notebook.rmd" outlines the steps used for data cleaning, exploratory data analysis, and creation of the statistical models. The relative path for the data file is included in an R code chunk, so each code block can be run to follow along with the process we took as we were analyzing the dataset. The "FIFA-Dashboard.rmd" is where we created the Shiny App by loading various libraries needed to construct it, after running the code "install.packages("shiny")" in the terminal to be able to do so. From there, each R code block can be run separately, the two main ones being the "r_ui" and "r_server" which are the inputs to the shiny app function at the bottom that actually creates an html file that users can interact with. Depending on the CPU of your computer, you may have to click "Open in Browser" to be able to view the app online.